well we're done recording when I get off
okay
welcome to the April 6 at this All Hands
to be this gonna start off by talking
about all right so our friends and made
a circle matrix tartaric are organizing
a virtual meet up to this is kind of
meet up that everyone can join and they
can join from anywhere the title of the
video is open tech will service and
there will be multiple talks we will
have Matthew to talk about matrix and
what they have been up to with regards
to using matrix and multiple use cases
and how it works and so on
we'll have Saul about her J I'm pretty
sure I'm pronouncing it incorrectly I'm
so sorry if you watch this recording to
tell us about how about GT and now GT
has been growing rapidly and now GC
works and all GC GC enables like
peer-to-peer video calls
I'll also be speaking and I'll be
introducing the gossip gossip Surrey is
a router of the pub/sub sorry is one of
the web server implementations that is
available for the peer-to-peer pub/sub
and we have been doing a lot of work to
make it more resilient make it more
robust attacks you can consult all of
these new updates on the P dot one on
one's back and yeah I'll be introducing
that and Exce funny how it works it's
gonna be fun and then last one of the
lists we will have one more person from
the matrix community beware I will
present you ex patterns in how to
provide a good UX for users that have to
deal with keys so that they can have
end-to-end communications
so yeah as I said like this is a free
meet up everyone is welcome to join you
have the time zones here it's 5 p.m. OTC
or check the other times depending on
your area and you can sign up to attend
there mera kaam
yeah that's it
we just joining me speed up I know I
okay a few folks all right cool
so that's it question from Andrew and
the chat is it gonna be recorded there
will be a live stream mmm and TPU and
there is a live stream it means that
there is at least a recording done it
doesn't say if they are going to then
republish the recording but I'll ask oh
I think it's safe to assume yes but I
kiss I'll ask anyway
well you know better safe than sorry if
you join then you don't miss it
I've shot an email off to Oliver and ICC
to Stephen but um I do not know whether
it will be received in time yeah I dread
being human IRC but he's not long so all
bad options well any other agenda items
awesome demos Allen save us we there
awesome demo of that booster oh yeah I
can tell you about that I guess it's
hard to demo really a visual thing but I
can show you some stats you do everyone
if people are up for that okay let me
just quickly pull up
sheer scream right can they want to see
you my screen okay this is the Viper
booster project it has an awesome logo
and hydraboost project is a extension of
something we already have we have a kind
of a few DHT booster nodes that are
around that in the DHT that are aiming
at improving the quality of service of
the DHT and so the Hydra booster is a an
extension of that where it is is
essentially a multi multi multiple node
thing where we have many many lupita PD
nodes DHT nodes that are operating in
the DHT but the key thing is they share
the same share the same data store so
when people ask one of these nodes or
when when peers in the DHT asks one of
these nodes for some information then it
has it can share that information
between other nodes if other nodes have
found out about that information
previously then they all have this
shared kind of understanding and that's
why it's a Hydra because it has many
many heads and it has one big belly full
of data and the whole idea that we've
having this lots of nodes in the DHT is
to reduce the number of hops because
when you try and guess the fact the DHT
you often have to hop from node to node
trying to find the thing that you're
looking for
and if we if we can insert a node at
some point in that hop in in those hops
that has lots of information about about
things that are on the DHT then we can
reduce the time it takes to query the
DHT for information and so that's that's
super cool the other thing about the DHT
boost the Hydra booster is that we've
we've added a method of generating peer
IDs such that they are evenly spread
around the DHT previously the old DHT
boosters were generating random peer IDs
and there's no guarantee that we'd blow
they are they are nicely nicely placed
in the DHT so a lot like when you learn
when anyone one of the HT queries they
might not run into one of these
hydraboost Hydra bases so that is we're
trying to address that so this is these
the Hydra boosters what we have at the
moment is we've deployed a bunch of them
there are five hydras and we've named
them we've named them I don't actually
can see see this but this is a simple
bubbles
Trumpy domino and you kid and each one
of those guys has a different amount of
heads we're just testing them out at the
moment you can see on this graph that as
Alice evil has 25 heads bubbles has 50
heads company has a hundred heads domino
has 150 heads in euclid has 200 heads so
it's pretty rad and on this graph up
here we've got the current current
connected peers so this is across all
Sybil's and all hydras the total
connected peers we're rockin around
600,000 connected peers in the DHT
Network which is pretty cool and we can
break it down by each each Hydra and
then we've got a nice little drop down
here and we can actually select a
particular head of the Hydra at the
Civil that most of what we're calling it
and the Hydra to further narrow it down
which is kind of cool you can see that
obviously the ones that have more heads
have
or total connections that's kind of cool
routing tables is a similar sort of
thing but it's the it's basically if you
know anything about the DHT it's the key
bucket well in our case is the k bucket
where peers are placed the so this this
graph just here shows the unique pair so
this is you gotta take this a little bit
infinite result because each one of
these could they could have seen the
same peers essentially but this one is
what this like weirdly bubbles it
doesn't have as many heads as Euclid has
seen more unique peers in the DHT which
is kind of fun and that's so he's seen
around was thirty one thousand unique
peers in the DHT which is cool which is
not it's not everyone I guess yeah CPU
usage ticking along provider records
we've currently got around eight million
in the store for Euclid which is pretty
cool and I'm currently working on a
feature whereby Hydra Sybil's will
actually when when they're asked if they
have a provider record for a particular
cid if they don't have it then the civil
is going to actually proactively go and
fetch that record so it does have it for
next time so that means so what I what
I'm imagining on see soon is that we
will have many many many more provider
records in the store so that's that's
good news because people because then
we'll be able to respond to more queries
so that's kind of cool
the rest is kind of like no to
monitoring or virtual machine monitoring
memory wishes remember per connection
which is which is pretty low which is
great CPU so memory usage we that's
superb like considering we've got like
thousands and thousands of connected
peers where we're kind of good we got
around ten to fifteen on the on the
biggest node we've got that can go up to
like twenty right now
so you know they like it's not it's not
right it's not something that but what's
really cool is that we've got it's just
like it's running on Google cloud it's
running on kubernetes we've got a single
VM hosting two to hydra's and so we've
got free premiums - hydras on each
essentially and they're each one of
those hydras is running like five
hundred ipfs nodes essentially which is
kind of cool because you can just do
that you know right which is good so I
think my mum's decided to find me while
I'm doing this cool crate so yeah open
file descriptors not lemony it's still
good and you can see that we've got with
spending probably spending too much time
with garbage collection that was a 10%
previously but I below it there recently
by around 2% by the looks of it which is
kind of cool but that's Hydra Buse is
nuts that the control the bigger fire we
have for monitoring them like the one of
the good things about this is that this
project has now like we've got proper
ownership for it we've got these metrics
which I'm showing you now which we
didn't previously have well I mean we
had like regular kind of node like rpm
monitoring stuff but we didn't have this
insight into the you know the unique
peers and the routing table sighs you
know suffer that so and so we with it's
in theory hopefully gonna be much better
than the current version and I think
that's probably about all I have to say
off the top of my head without preparing
steven has a question
10% GC is ago GC or provider record you
see this is the yeah this is the go it's
it comes from Go Go man stats the CPU
fraction this so this metric that you
get from for me
does that answer your question
it's everything I think that was what's
next what's next well okay so I'm like I
said I'm working on getting the hydrant
nodes to proactively fetch records it
doesn't have so it will have more
records to serve to the rule what is
next
can't we be should be should we be
running hydras to option other people be
running hydras um ideally no like we
want to be like thing is if it if it
could help you or net you'll never even
I guess you could we're running them to
ensure that all of the ipfs network has
really good really good DHT response
times and and stuff that yeah you should
like unless you've got like a big
application with thousands thousands new
users and you put your own
implementation with like a version of
the th even then no I wouldn't expect
you it you'd have to well so I mean look
if you want to talk about yes but not
yet so once it's all stable not now when
yes actually I think part of it ends up
being
if you expect other people to run it
then the operations stack that other
people run may be helpful in defining
how it gets built that's the current
situation I find myself in with go ipfs
it wasn't never designed for server
server right and literally every single
block team I've ever worked with as well
has been built for kind of half-assedly
rendered on a developer desktop so yeah
yeah like this was sound alseep doesn't
matter so the either booster actually
like giving extra praised our and i
actually the way it is deployed is all
the committed on the
itself still actually if you could go
there just like greet those dogs and I
tell as it doesn't make sense like if
you buy reading those dogs will be able
to avoid yourself that would be a great
piece of feedback a the the TLDR is like
if you you should like run on Rhode
Island Reds addres notes essentially
until we have the next version of my
previous release and feel we played got
to use the next version until we finish
all the steps because like I still has
some features features that we are
working on perhaps not like you will not
get any significant result out of it
that sin either is designed as kind of
like a service to augment the quality of
service or as a tool to augment the
quality of service of the network and so
anyone can run a Hydra and that should
only increase the quality of service of
the network and so if if for some reason
you think that the network is not good
enough you can like run more address
that's it we are also going to be
proactive about it and like see as a
network expansion and shrinks and kind
of a cut just the number of eyebrows
that we have running but like from the
beginning from the design phase we
wanted to have a node that could provide
this service illumination without hard
coding any piece without like having to
tell I profess notes dial to the
specific nail that's why I draw eyes
like so many hats because it just like
has a very broad coverage of the content
address space and so anyone can run it
and they don't have to ask others to
rely on on there either nodes the
network itself was just benefit as a
whole so what I heard was yes if you'd
like to help but it's in rapid
development so things might change be
prepared for that yeah I'd expect I'd
expect that if you're if you're if you
want to help out with ipfs in general
then yeah absolutely run them like we're
we're running them but because we want
to help everyone who's is on the IP of
his network
but if you're building your app
specifically on IP offense you're
probably not focused on making the
network a whole a bit better for
everyone in network I do just want it
better that you're at and this is not
not that this is like help him
everything but if you are willing to
kind of donate resource towards that
goal then absolutely yeah that would be
rad I have a question I learned at some
point he said that this existed before
Hydra but the extra heads were not
equally split around the half space
right correct whereas Hydra does that in
the in the peer IDs that it generates
for its heads it it makes sure that they
are they they are balanced so they don't
appear that so you know two heads end up
in the same bucket all right okay okay
now it's you okay okay now I see because
I was trying to see you know given that
there are many hydras how either do you
collectively split the hatch space
between them it's only for the beer IDs
that those hydros are serving right yeah
yeah exactly it's just to avoid like
putting two hydras basically next to
each other exactly yeah yeah yeah okay
okay so it could be some optimization
there the moment we've got we've got
multiple hydras and the peers that they
generate that peer heads that they
generate are balanced for each like
between hydras but not each Hydra but
not overall so what ideally we kind of
need like as a service which is like
give me like that remembers peer IDs
that it's generated and keeps them
balanced for all of the hydrants all the
hydras gets spread like proper spread
because at the moment we might
I have one major which is spread nicely
but then another fighter might overlap
that instead of also being spread nicely
so so this improvements to doing it
that's kind of on that on that on the
roadmap but yeah okay great yeah that
was my question
okay yep very good
I explained this not very well but I
didn't prepare the RFC and the readme
actually do a really good job at
explaining things and again this was not
a poem talk and so we are still like
finishing some details very close to the
end like still finishing some details so
expect I want to keep a proper prepared
talk in the future Matt brought up a
good question which I I'm not
remembering at all if it was like a
specific reason other than being like a
nice number maybe Steven knows the
answer or someone maybe George it is
here why do we typically give two
thousand connections or we typically
created two thousand connection pool for
ipfs notes why where does that number
come from
well two thousand doesn't really come
from anywhere the typical number should
be about log besides the network times
20 which is the log says the network
whose 20 is just like it said about the
number of buckets you expect to be full
I think usually this is around at most
200 peers if you have 200 pairs you
should be good the mm just means that
like basically like connections are like
they cost you in terms of resources but
not too much and it's more expensive to
recreate those connections and then to
just like keep them around so we keep we
arrow inside lucky or connections
because it means like if you know the
needs neck connected future the you
already connected if you ask a random
bits like if you make a big round
bits awful question you don't know where
some kind it is there's a chance that
they'll have the data you looking for
already yeah so that's usually what we
we tried not to kill keys unless we need
to
but the minimum is more like 200 to
2,000
makes sense all of that oh sorry sorry
that the mm is because we have the type
the high and low water marks for the
connection manager set at 1500 and 2000
I think so that when it gets up there so
try to retain connections up to
low-water mark and then when it gets
above 2000 you will bring them off it's
not a good number for desktop use and if
you download and install I bet if s
desktop it actually comes with better
connection manager defaults for for
business
gotcha yessir I was asking selfishly for
you know we are certificate to do many
thousands of peers so as curious kind of
the performance metrics there and how
that all worked
yeah but being part of the reason is
right now we have like some trouble with
the D agency that will be fixed release
and like if you already think it all
appears to might have the content use
ask for the content you get to bypass
the VHD there's something about being at
too many peers the problem is it's more
resources but like my own computer I
think I default alike so the a critique
of hope does not mm the actual default
is nine hundred and six hundred six
hundred low nine hundred hi my node is
well actually but I think it's more like
yeah mine I said at seven thousand there
are seven thousand two hundred as high
in several thousands low this is my
laptop it's actually not a problem in
practice just because I'm not running a
TV server it's like you're running to
each the client mode you can have like
and say whatever just nicked as many
kids as you need and as long as II don't
run a file description is usually fine
so for these hydras are they they're
taking in BHT records you know I've
talked to anything with you guys about
and pass a little about how we just have
too many provider records to announce in
one cycle before you know that twelve
hours is up
well this still provide performance
benefits even if like the records are
announced and we have those records that
are willing to serve them people just
don't know about them yet
it will provide enormous benefits but
it's just like because these nodes will
be highly connected highly available
public IP like fast machines right to
your nodes will be able to like dial
like one day that when I'd rather will
like have a fast response cycle but but
that's like the optimization you get
like you don't get like a smart
optimizations that jazz here is a bucket
of records now distributed yourself
which will be just like a more efficient
way to build records especially for our
devices like resource device with OS
resources and so on we we have been
discussing like ways to make provides
faster
[Music]
yeah like there is no specific design
details on the Hydra to provide that yet
it might you might just come down like
the simplest thing to do is to have an
option where when an activist note
notices that the user is adding a lot of
data to just like bring up the hey like
it seemed like you're letting a lot of
data and you're going to provide a lot
of records would you like to use one of
many other nodes at all in a network to
be the main like the delegated nodes to
like provide these records into the
network rather than doing it yourself
another another thing that okay so this
is like one one thing another thing that
either I can also help you do the
provides this because because they are
so well connected when you do the the
fine Pierce call to find the best
providers you will actually need to I do
less hops in the network to find that
the final destination for the records so
you can actually get another performance
of the musician there so there is like
two of them anything else I think that
there is a hand for Marilyn go ahead
yeah I was just gonna say and the the
great thing is if you put if you do a
pull and you happen to put to a Hydra
note because they are all linked by one
belly you put you put too many
effectively distributing the content way
faster or making it more more easily
findable by if you manage to put two
events but yeah like for example I guess
for your use case Matt what you might be
thinking is running your own Hydra and I
am having you're pinning servers to
point to the other nodes I was like the
place to put the records when you add
our up data and like just ignore across
the network because then when your nose
will be looking for those records they
will find that address at us and so for
your nodes that are cleaning your data
they just like I have to like one hop
away I just like put the record there
but like from the perspective of the
network the record will now be available
in multiple
Asians simultaneously so you could I
care like really fast provides but like
it's a custom piece that like you
integrate with your your own
architecture like basically the main
thing here is they did like hydras help
prop up the network when you have like
problems with the DHD part of like the
gut for survival is also to like reduce
those problems of the DHD and all that
together should just produce the matter
how it takes actually providing this
record we shouldn't get faster to
provide everything the next step there
is like parallel provides there's been
on this then there's like yeah back
provides which aren't very possible and
we've considered doing we're like
instead of like doing a normal teach
decoy for each record you kind of like
walk basically you sort the records by
where they would go the DHT you can just
walk around the DHT giving back updates
every single node so basically you have
more records than there are knows the
DHT this is a lot faster
like it said like making multi request
into denotes you just sort of like make
single batch requests but at the end of
their like the key piece here will also
move to providing less like only only
announcing certain pieces of other
pieces but that has other constraints
yeah the web basically bulk announced a
bunch of IDs to a Hydra and then
eventually the Hydra can be like okay
let's go all to live little Hydra peers
that's kind of how it's thinking about
it but I won't take up any more time so
thanks for answering my questions so far
go and check out the retirement paint
King us if you want if you need more
info yeah I will probably be doing
HTTP API as well which you can tell it
to get things that's super more that's
for later we got to go
thanks for the presentation Alan's
welcome thanks for coming everyone